[The movie opens with a sick boy playing Hardball on the Commodore 64 when his mother comes into his room.]

Mother: Hi, honey.

Grandson: Hi, Mom.

Mother: (kisses his forehead) You feeling any better?

Grandson: A little bit.

Mother: Guess what.

Grandson: What?

Mother: Grandfather's here.

Grandson: Mom, can't you tell him I'm sick?

Mother: You're sick? That's why he's here.

Grandson: He'll pinch my cheek. I hate that.

Mother: Maybe he won't.

[His grandfather comes in to visit his grandson.]

Grandfather: Hey, how is the sickie? Huh? (pinches his cheek)

Mother: I think I'll leave you two pals alone.

[She goes to leave the room.]

Grandfather: (holds out a present) I brought you a special present.

Grandson: What is it?

Grandfather: (hands it to Grandson) Open it up.

[He opens the present to find a book.]

Grandson: A book?

Grandfather: That's right. When I was your age, television was called books. And this is a special book. (grabs the book) It was the book my father used to read to me when I was sick, and I used to read it to your father. Today, I'm going to read it to you.

Grandson: Does it got any sports in it?

Grandfather: Are you kidding? Fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love, miracles.

Grandson: That doesn't sound too bad. I'll try and stay awake.

Grandfather: Thank you very much. That's very nice of you. (sets down his hat) Your vote of confidence is overwhelming. (opens the book) All right. (puts on glasses and starts reading) "The Princess Bride by S. Morgenstern. Chapter One. Buttercup was raised on a small farm in the country of Florin.

[We fade into a fantasy setting, where we see Buttercup riding on her horse as she returns to her farm.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) Her favorite pastimes were riding her horse and tormenting the farm boy that worked there. His name was Westley, but she never called him that." Isn't that a wonderful beginning?

Grandson: (voiceover) Yeah, it's really good.

Grandfather: (voiceover) "Nothing gave Buttercup as much pleasure as ordering Westley around."

Buttercup: Farm boy, polish my horse's saddle. I want to see my face shining in it by morning.

Westley: As you wish.

Grandfather: (voiceover) "As you wish" was all he ever said to her.

[Cut to Westley chopping down logs when Buttercup walks in with empty buckets.]

Buttercup: Farm boy, fill these with water. Please.

Westley: As you wish.

Grandfather: (voiceover) That day she was amazed to discover that when he was saying, "As you wish", what he meant was, "I love you."

[Later, as Buttercup is baking, Westley brings in more logs for the fire. She stares lovingly at the farm boy.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) Even more amazing was the day she realized… she truly loved him back.

Buttercup: Farm boy. Fetch me that pitcher.

Westley: (grabs the pitcher) As you wish.

[We cut to the two kissing outside as the sun sets.]

Grandson: (voiceover) Hold it, hold it.

[Cut back to present day.]

Grandson: What is this? Are you trying to trick me? And where's the sports? Is this a kissing book?

Grandfather: Wait. Just wait.

Grandson: When does it get good?

Grandfather: Keep your shirt on and let me read. (resumes reading) "Westley had no money for marriage, so he packed his few belongings and left the farm to seek his fortune across the sea."

[Cut to Westley preparing to leave. Buttercup solemnly hugs him one last time.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) It was a very emotional time for Buttercup.

Grandson: (voiceover) I don't believe this!

Buttercup: I fear I'll never see you again.

Westley: Of course, you will.

Buttercup: What if something happens to you?

Westley: Hear this now... I will always come for you.

Buttercup: But how can you be sure?

Westley: This is true love. Do you think this happens every day?

[They kiss and hug passionately before Westley leaves.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "Westley didn't reach his destination. His ship was attacked by the Dread Pirate Roberts… who never left captives alive. When Buttercup got the news that Westley was murdered…"

Grandson: (voiceover) Murdered by pirates is good!

[Cut later to Buttercup sitting sadly in her room.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "She went into her room and shut the door, and for days, she neither slept nor ate."

Buttercup: I will never love again.

[Fade five years later in Florin City, where we see people gathering in the main square.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "Five years later, the main square of Florin City was filled as never before to hear the announcement of the great Prince Humperdinck's bride-to-be."

[Royal people blow horns to announce the arrival of Prince Humperdinck.]

Humperdinck: My people, a month from now, our country will have its 500th anniversary. On that sundown, I shall marry a lady who was once a commoner like yourselves, but perhaps you will not find her common now. Would you like to meet her?

Citizens: Yes!

Humperdinck: My people, the princess Buttercup!

[The horns are blown as Buttercup arrives. The citizens bow down to her.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "Buttercup's emptiness consumed her. Although the law of the land gave Humperdinck the right to choose his bride, she did not love him.

[Cut to Buttercup riding off across the land on a horse.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) Despite Humperdinck's reassurance that she would grow to love him, the only joy she found was in her daily ride."

[She stops to encounter a trio of men.]

Vizzini: A word, my lady? We are but poor, lost circus performers. Is there a village nearby?

Buttercup: There is nothing nearby, not for miles.

Vizzini: Then there will be no one to hear you scream.

[The men turn out to be a notorious trio of brigands known as the Sicilian Crowd. Fezzik grabs Buttercup by the neck, and she falls unconscious. As Inigo and Fezzik board their ship, Vizzini is ripping the fabric from a uniform.]

Inigo: What is that you're ripping?

Vizzini: It's fabric from the uniform of an army officer of Guilder.

Fezzik: Who's Guilder?

Vizzini: The country across the sea, the sworn enemy of Florin. (to the horse) Go! (the horse goes off; as he boards the ship) Once the horse reaches the castle, the fabric will make the prince suspect that the Guilderians have abducted his love. When he finds her body dead on the Guilder frontier, his suspicions will be totally confirmed.

Fezzik: You never said anything about killing anyone.

Vizzini: I've hired you to help me start a war. It's a prestigious line of work with a long and glorious tradition.

Fezzik: I just don't think it's right, killing an innocent girl.

Vizzini: Am I going mad, or did the word "think" escape your lips? You were not hired for your brains, you hippopotamic land mass!

Inigo: I agree with Fezzik.

Vizzini: Oh, the sot has spoken! What happens to her is not truly your concern; I will kill her! And remember this, never forget this... When I found you, you were so slobbering drunk… you couldn't buy brandy! (to Fezzik) And you… friendless, brainless… helpless, hopeless! Do you want me to send you back to where you were… unemployed in Greenland?

Inigo: That Vizzini, he can... fuss.

Fezzik: Fuss, fuss... I think he like to scream… at us.

Inigo: Probably he means no... harm.

Fezzik: He's really very short on… charm.

Inigo: You have a great gift for rhyme.

Fezzik: Yes, yes, some of the time.

Vizzini: (offscreen; annoyed) Enough of that!

[The ship sails off from dry land.]

Inigo: (offscreen) Fezzik, are there rocks ahead?

Fezzik: (offscreen) If there are, we'll all be dead.

Vizzini: (offscreen; annoyed) No more rhymes, now. I mean it!

Fezzik: (offscreen) Anybody want a peanut?

[Vizzini screams in exasperated annoyance. Later that night...]

Vizzini: We'll reach the cliffs by dawn. (sees Inigo staring behind the ship) Why are you doing that?

Inigo: Making sure nobody's following us.

Vizzini: That would be inconceivable.

Buttercup: Despite what you think, you will be caught, and when you are, the prince will see you all hanged.

Vizzini: Of all the necks on this boat, Highness, the one you should be worrying about is your own. (sees Inigo still staring out) Stop doing that! We can all relax. It's almost over.

Inigo: You are sure nobody's following us?

Vizzini: As I told you, it would be absolutely, totally, and in all other ways inconceivable! No one in Guilder knows what we've done, and no one in Florin could have gotten here so fast. Out of curiosity, why do you ask?

Inigo: I happened to look behind us, and something is there.

Vizzini: What?

[He looks out to see a boat following their trail.]

Vizzini: Probably some local fisherman out for a pleasure cruise at night through eel-infested waters.

[They hear a splash nearby and see Buttercup swimming to escape.]

Vizzini: What? Go in! Get after her!

Inigo: I don't swim.

Fezzik: I only dog-paddle.

Vizzini: (screams in exasperation) Veer left! Left! Left!

[As Buttercup swims, she hears shrieking in the water.]

Vizzini: Do you know what that sound is, Highness? Those are the shrieking eels. If you don't believe me, just wait. They always grow louder… when they're about to feed on human flesh.

[An eel swims by Buttercup, scaring her.]

Vizzini: If you swim back now, I promise no harm will come to you. I doubt you'll get such an offer from the eels.

[Eels swim by the girl before one of them charges toward her with its mouth open. Cut to reality.]

Grandfather: She doesn't get eaten by the eels at this time.

Grandson: What?

Grandfather: The eel doesn't get her. I'm explaining to you because you look nervous.

Grandson: I wasn't nervous. (Grandfather looks at him with doubt) Maybe I was a little bit concerned, but that's not the same thing.

Grandfather: Because we can stop now if you want.

Grandson: No. You could read a little bit more, if you want.

Grandfather: (reads as Vizzini) "Do you know what that sound is, Highness? Those are the shrieking eels."

Grandson: We're past that, Grandpa. You read it already.

Grandfather: My goodness, I did. I'm sorry. Beg your pardon.

[Cut back to the story.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) All right, all right. Let's see. She was in the water, the eel was coming after her… she was frightened… the eel started to charge her, and then...

[Suddenly, the eel gets hit and Fezzik picks Buttercup back up.]

Vizzini: Put her down. Just put her down!

[Fezzik sets her down. As Vizzini ties her up, Inigo looks back to see the boat still following them.]

Inigo: I think he's getting closer.

Vizzini: He's no concern of ours. Sail on! (to Buttercup) I suppose you think you're brave, don't you?

Buttercup: Only compared to some.

[Fade to the next morning, the boat is getting closer to theirs.]

Inigo: Look! He's right on top of us! I wonder if he's using the same wind we are using.

Vizzini: Whoever he is, he's too late. See?

[They arrive at the Cliffs of Insanity.]

Vizzini: The Cliffs of Insanity! Hurry up! Move the thing! And that other thing! Move it!

[Soon, they stop at the shore.]

Vizzini: We're safe. Only Fezzik is strong enough to go up our way. He'll have to sail for hours till he finds a harbor.

[They start climbing. Soon, Inigo notices that the man was so determined that the lack of a nearby harbor was no object to him.]

Inigo: He's climbing the rope, and he's gaining on us!

Vizzini: Inconceivable...! Faster!

Fezzik: I thought I was going faster?

Vizzini: You were supposed to be this colossus… you were this great legendary thing… and yet he gains!

Fezzik: I'm carrying three people, and he got only himself.

Vizzini: I do not accept excuses. I have to find a new giant.

Fezzik: Don't say that, Vizzini, please.

[As they continue climbing, the top still seemingly far away, Vizzini grows considerably more impatient.]

Vizzini: Did I make it clear that your job is at stake?

[Finally, they make it to the top. Vizzini cuts the rope to send the man in black plummeting. To the Sicilian Crowd's shock, the man in black is hanging on near the top, as Fezzik notes.]

Fezzik: He's got very good arms.

Vizzini: He didn't fall? Inconceivable!

Inigo: You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means. My God, he's climbing.

Vizzini: Whoever he is, he's obviously seen us with the princess and must therefore die. You carry her. We'll head straight for the Guilder frontier. Catch up when he's dead. If he falls, fine. If not, the sword.

Inigo: I'm going to duel him left-handed.

Vizzini: You know what a hurry we're in.

Inigo: It's the only way I can be satisfied. If I use my right, tsk! Over too quickly.

Vizzini: (reluctantly) Oh, have it your way!

Fezzik: You be careful. People in masks cannot be trusted.

Vizzini: I'm waiting!

Inigo: Hello there! Slow going?

Man in Black: I don't mean to be rude, but this is not as easy as it looks. I'd appreciate it if you wouldn't distract me.

Inigo: Sorry.

Man in Black: Thank you.

Inigo: I do not suppose you could speed things up?

Man in Black: If you're in such a hurry, you could lower a rope or a tree branch or find something useful to do.

Inigo: I could do that. I got some rope up here, but I do not think you would accept my help since I am only waiting around to kill you.

Man in Black: That does put a damper on our relationship.

Inigo: But I promise I won't kill you until you reach the top.

Man in Black: That's very comforting, but I'm afraid you'll just have to wait.

Inigo: I hate waiting. I could give you my word as a Spaniard.

Man in Black: No good. I've known too many Spaniards.

Inigo: Any way you'll trust me?

Man in Black: Nothing comes to mind.

Inigo: I swear on the soul of my father, Domingo Montoya… you will reach the top alive.

Man in Black: Throw me the rope.

[Inigo throws the man the rope and he climbs up while Inigo pulls him up to the top.]

Man in Black: Thank you.

Inigo: Wait. We'll wait until you're ready.

Man in Black: Again, thank you.

[The man in black sits down to catch a breather before they begin their duel.]

Inigo: I do not mean to pry, but you don't by any chance… happen to have six fingers on your right hand?

Man in Black: (baffled) Do you always begin conversations this way?

Inigo: My father was slaughtered by a six-fingered man. He was a great swordmaker, my father. When the six-fingered man appeared… and request a special sword… my father took the job. He slaved a year before he was done.

Man in Black: (impressed) I've never seen its equal.

Inigo: The six-fingered man returned and demanded it… but at 1/10 his promised price. My father refused. Without a word… the six-fingered man slashed him through the heart. I loved my father. So naturally, I challenged his murderer to a duel. I failed. The six-fingered man leave me alive… but he gave me this.

Man in Black: How old were you?

Inigo: I was eleven years old. When I was strong enough… I dedicated my life to the study of fencing. So the next time we meet, I will not fail. I will go up to the six-fingered man and say..."Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die."

Man in Black: You've done nothing but study swordplay?

Inigo: More pursuit than study lately. You see, I cannot find him. It's been twenty years now. I'm starting to lose confidence. I just work for Vizzini to pay the bills. There's not a lot of money in revenge.

Man in Black: I certainly hope you find him someday.

[The man in black returns Inigo's sword and rises.]

Inigo: You're ready, then?

Man in Black: Whether I am or not, you've been more than fair.

Inigo: You seem a decent fellow. I hate to kill you.

Man in Black: You seem a decent fellow. I hate to die.

Inigo: Begin.

[On Inigo's cue, the two begin crossing swords. Even at this initial stage of the duel, Inigo is impressed by the man in black's skill and curious as to the technique he is using.]

Inigo: You are using Bonetti's defense against me?

Man in Black: I thought it fitting, considering the rocky terrain.

Inigo: Naturally, you must expect me to attack with Capo Ferro.

[Inigo then switches to Capo Ferro.]

Man in Black: Naturally.

[Regaining his bearings, the Man in Black switches to Thibault.]

Man in Black: But I find that Thibault cancels out Capo Ferro. Don't you?

Inigo: Unless the enemy has studied his Agrippa... (switches to the Agrippa swordfighting style) ...which I have.

[The fight quickly becomes more acrobatic at full force. When the Man in Black has Inigo dead to rights, the Spaniard is impressed indeed.]

Inigo: You are wonderful!

Man in Black: Thank you. I've worked hard to become so.

Inigo: I admit it. You are better than I am.

Man in Black: Then why are you smiling?

Inigo: Because I know something you don't know.

Man in Black: What is that?

Inigo: I am not left-handed!

[Immediately, Inigo switches to his right hand and gains the advantage, much to the surprise of the man in black. As the man in black tries in vain to fend off a full-strength six-fingered sword, he retreats up the ruins of a turret and is eventually cornered.]

Man in Black: You're amazing.

Inigo: I ought to be, after twenty years.

[With his back against the wall, the man in black has one more trick up his sleeve...]

Man in Black: There's something I ought to tell you.

Inigo: Tell me.

Man in Black: I'm not left-handed, either.

[With these words, the man in black switches to his own right hand, leveling the playing field and taking back the advantage. He disarms Inigo, who proceeds to retrieve his sword. To demonstrate how much he's learning against such a grandmaster, the man in black throws his own sword into the landing and retrieves it with style. Inigo is amazed at how the man in black is not just picking up his technique but improving on it.]

Inigo: Who are you?

Man in Black: No one of consequence.

Inigo: I must know.

Man in Black: Get used to disappointment.

[The fight continues, with the man in black trying to disarm Inigo again, this time by knocking the six-fingered sword up into the air. Again Inigo retrieves it, but the look on his face makes it clear that he's met his match. The man in black disarms him yet again. Accepting his defeat, Inigo kneels down, awaiting the inevitable.]

Inigo: Kill me quickly.

Man in Black: I would sooner destroy a stained-glass window than an artist like yourself. However, since I can't have you following me, either... (knocks out Inigo with the hilt of his sword) Please understand, I hold you in the highest respect.

[From a distance, Vizzini spies the man in black, having defeated Inigo, closing in on him and Fezzik.]

Vizzini: Inconceivable! Give her to me! Catch up with us quickly!

Fezzik: What do I do?

Vizzini: Finish him, finish him... your way!

Fezzik: Good, my way. Thank you, Vizzini. Which way's my way?

Vizzini: Pick up one of those rocks, get behind the boulder. In a few minutes, the man in black will come running around the bend. The minute his head is in view, hit it with the rock!

Fezzik: My way is not very sportsmanlike.

[As the man in black approaches, Fezzik throws the rock at him, deliberately aiming to the side of his head to grab his attention.]

Fezzik: I did that on purpose. I didn't have to miss.

Man in Black: I believe you. So what happens now?

Fezzik: We face each other as God intended. Sportsmanlike. No tricks, no weapons. Skill against skill alone.

Man in Black: You'll put down your rock, and I'll put down my sword… and we'll try and kill each other like civilized people?

Fezzik: I could kill you now.

Man in Black: Frankly, I think the odds are slightly in your favor at hand-fighting.

Fezzik: It's not my fault being the biggest and the strongest. I don't even exercise.

Man in Black: Are you just fiddling around with me, or what?

Fezzik: I want you to feel you are doing well. I hate for people to die embarrassed. You're quick!

Man in Black: Good thing, too!

Fezzik: Why are you wearing a mask? Were you burned with acid or something like that?

Man in Black: No. It's just they're terribly comfortable. I think everyone will be wearing them in the future.

Fezzik: I just figured why you give me so much trouble.

Man in Black: Why is that, do you think?

Fezzik: I haven't fought just one person for so long. I've been specializing in groups. Battling gangs for local charities… that kind of thing.

Man in Black: Why should that make such a... Oof! Difference?

Fezzik: Well, you see… you use different moves… when you're fighting half a dozen people… than when you only… have to be worried about one.

Man in Black: I do not envy you the headache you will have when you awake. But in the meantime, rest well and dream of large women.

[Back at the cliff, Humperdinck investigates the area where the Man in Black defeated Inigo, imitating the swordfight in which they had engaged.]

Humperdinck: There was a mighty duel. It ranged all over. They were both masters.

Rugen: Who won? How did it end?

Humperdinck: The loser ran off alone, while the winner... followed those footprints toward Guilder.

Rugen: Shall we track them both?

Humperdinck: The loser is nothing. Only the princess matters. Clearly, this was all planned by warriors of Guilder. We must all be ready for whatever lies ahead.

Rugen: Could this be a trap?

Humperdinck: I always think everything could be a trap, which is why I'm still alive.

[Meanwhile, the Man in Black catches up to Vizzini, who has Buttercup blindfolded and seated at a table with goblets laid out.]

Vizzini: So, it is down to you, and it is down to me.

[The Man in Black continues his approach. Vizzini puts a knife to Buttercup's neck.]

Vizzini: If you wish her dead, by all means, keep moving forward.

Man in Black: Let me explain.

Vizzini: There's nothing to explain. You're trying to kidnap what I've rightfully stolen.

Man in Black: Perhaps... an arrangement can be reached?

Vizzini: There will be no arrangement, and you're killing her.

Man in Black: If there can be no arrangement, then we are at an impasse.

Vizzini: I'm afraid so. I can't compete with you physically, and you're no match for my brains.

Man in Black: You're that smart?

Vizzini: Let me put it this way: have you ever heard of Plato, Aristotle, Socrates?

Man in Black: Yes.

Vizzini: Morons.

Man in Black: Really? In that case, I challenge you to a battle of wits.

Vizzini: For the princess? To the death? I accept.

Man in Black: Good, then pour the wine. Inhale this, but do not touch.

Vizzini: I smell nothing.

Man in Black: What you do not smell is called iocane powder. It is odorless, tasteless, dissolves instantly in liquid, and is among the more deadly poisons known to man.

[The Man in Black pours the iocane discreetly.]

Man in Black: All right, where is the poison? The battle of wits has begun. It ends when you decide, and we both drink, and find out who is right and who is dead.

Vizzini: But it's so simple. All I have to do is divine from what I know of you: are you the sort of man who would put the poison into his own goblet or his enemy's? A clever man would put the poison into his own goblet, because he would know that only a great fool would reach for what he was given. I am not a great fool, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But you must have known I was not a great fool; you would have counted on it, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.

Man in Black: You've made your decision, then?

Vizzini: Not remotely, because iocane comes from Australia, as everyone knows, and Australia is entirely peopled with criminals, and criminals are used to having people not trust them (as you are not trusted by me), so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you.

Man in Black: Truly, you have a dizzying intellect.

Vizzini: Wait till I get going! Where was I?

Man in Black: Australia.

Vizzini: Yes, Australia. You must have suspected I would have known the powder's origin, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.

Man in Black: You're just stalling now.

Vizzini: You'd like to think that, wouldn't you? You've beaten my giant, which means you're exceptionally strong, so you could have put the poison in your own goblet, trusting on your strength to save you, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But you've also bested my Spaniard, which means you must have studied, and in studying, you must have learned that man is mortal, so you would have put the poison as far from yourself as possible, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.

Man in Black: You're trying to trick me into giving away something. It won't work.

Vizzini: It has worked; you've given everything away. I know where the poison is.

Man in Black: Then make your choice.

Vizzini: I will, and I choose... (gasps and points at something) What in the world can that be?

Man in Black: (turns around) What? Where?

[Vizzini switches the cups before the Man in Black turns back around.]

Man in Black: I don't see anything.

Vizzini: I could have sworn I saw something. No matter. (chuckles)

Man in Black: What's so funny?

Vizzini: I'll tell you in a minute. First, let's drink. Me from my glass and you from yours.

[They grab their glasses and carefully lift them up to their mouths before drinking. Then, they set them down on the table.]

Man in Black: You guessed wrong.

Vizzini: You only think I guessed wrong. That's what's so funny! I switched glasses when your back was turned! (laughs) You fool! You fell victim to one of the classic blunders. The most famous is "Never get involved in a land war in Asia." But only slightly less well known is this… "Never go in against a Sicilian when death is on the line!"

[He laughs until he stops and falls dead.]

Buttercup: Who are you?

Man in Black: I am no one to be trifled with. That is all you ever need know.

Buttercup: And to think, all that time, it was your cup that was poisoned.

Man in Black: They were both poisoned. I spent the last few years building up an immunity to iocane powder.

[Meanwhile, Humperdinck investigates the area where the Man in Black defeated Fezzik.]

Humperdinck: Someone has beaten the giant. There will be great suffering in Guilder if she dies.

[He gets on his horse and rides off with his men. We then cut back to the Man in Black and Buttercup.]

Man in Black: Catch your breath.

Buttercup: If you'll release me, whatever you ask for ransom, you'll get it. I promise you.

Man in Black: (laughs) And what is that worth, the promise of a woman? You're very funny, Highness.

Buttercup: I was giving you a chance. It does not matter where you take me. There is no greater hunter than Prince Humperdinck. He can track a falcon on a cloudy day. He can find you.

Man in Black: You think your dearest love will save you?

Buttercup: I never said he was my dearest love. And, yes, he will save me. That I know.

Man in Black: You admit to me you do not love your fiancé.

Buttercup: He knows I do not love him.

Man in Black: Are not capable of love is what you mean.

Buttercup: I have loved more deeply than a killer like yourself could ever dream.

Man in Black: That was a warning, Highness. The next time, my hand flies on its own. Where I come from, there are penalties when a woman lies.

[Back at the table, Humperdinck sniffs the vial left near Vizzini's body.]

Humperdinck: Iocane: I'd bet my life on it. And there are the princess' footprints. She is alive, or was an hour ago. If she is otherwise when I find her... I shall be very put out.

[Meanwhile...]

Man in Black: Rest, Highness.

Buttercup: I know who you are. Your cruelty reveals everything. You're the Dread Pirate Roberts. Admit it.

Man in Black: With pride. What can I do for you?

Buttercup: You can die slowly, cut into a thousand pieces.

Man in Black: Hardly complimentary, Your Highness. Why loose your venom on me?

Buttercup: You killed my love.

Man in Black: It's possible. I kill a lot of people. Who was this love of yours? Another prince like this one… ugly, rich, and scabby?

Buttercup: A farm boy, poor. Poor and perfect with eyes like the sea after a storm. On the high seas, your ship attacked. And the Dread Pirate Roberts never takes prisoners.

Man in Black: I can't afford to make exceptions. Once word leaks out that a pirate has gone soft… people begin to disobey you… and then it's nothing but work, work, work all the time.

Buttercup: You mock my pain.

Man in Black: Life is pain, Highness. Anyone who says differently is selling something. I remember this farm boy of yours, I think. This would be, what, five years ago? Does it bother you to hear?

Buttercup: Nothing you can say will upset me.

Man in Black: He died well. That should please you. No bribe attempts or blubbering. He simply said, "Please… please, I need to live." It was the please that caught my memory. I asked him what was so important. "True love," he replied. Then he spoke of a girl… of surpassing beauty and faithfulness. I can only assume he meant you. You should bless me for destroying him… before he found out what you really are.

Buttercup: And what am I?

Man in Black: Faithfulness he talked of, madam… your enduring faithfulness. Tell me truly. When you found out he was gone… did you get engaged to your prince that same hour… or did you wait a whole week out of respect for the dead?

Buttercup: You mocked me once. Never do it again! I died that day! You can die, too, for all I care!

[She pushes the Man in Black, and he tumbles down the hill. As he rolls, he utters...]

Man in Black: As... you... wish!

[Buttercup immediately realizes who the figure really is.]

Buttercup: Oh my sweet Westley, what have I done?

[Buttercup proceeds to tumble down after him just before Humperdinck and his entourage show up.]

Humperdinck: They've disappeared. He must've seen us closing in, which might account for his panicking into error. Unless I'm wrong (and I am never wrong), they are headed dead into the Fire Swamp.

[At the bottom of the hill...]

Westley: Can you move at all?

Buttercup: Move? You're alive. If you want, I can fly.

Westley: I told you I would always come for you. Why didn't you wait for me?

Buttercup: Well, you were dead.

Westley: Death cannot stop true love. All it can do is delay it for a while.

Buttercup: I will never doubt again.

Westley: There will never be a need.

[The two kiss.]

Grandson: (voiceover) Oh, no. No, please.

[Cut back to reality.]

Grandfather: What is it? What's the matter?

Grandson: They're kissing again. Do we have to hear the kissing part?

Grandfather: Someday, you may not mind so much.

Grandson: Skip on to the Fire Swamp. That sounded good.

Grandfather: Oh. You're sick. I'll humor you. So now, where were we here? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, okay.

[Cut back to the story.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "Westley and Buttercup raced along the ravine floor."

Westley: Ha! Your pig fiancé is too late. A few more steps, and we'll be safe in the Fire Swamp.

Buttercup: We'll never survive.

Westley: Nonsense! You only say that because no one ever has.

[Soon, they arrive in the Fire Swamp. They hear a roar nearby.]

Westley: It's not that bad. I'm not saying I'd like to build a summer home here… but the trees are actually quite lovely.

[A flame spurt, signaled by a loud popping sound, causes Buttercup to catch fire; Westley shoves her down to make suffocating the flame easier.]

Westley: Well, now, that was an adventure. Singed a bit, were you?

Buttercup: You?

[Another popping sound. Westley immediately pulls Buttercup away from the source of the sound before she can get singed again.]

Westley: One thing I will say… the fire swamp certainly does keep you on your toes. This will all soon be but a happy memory… because Roberts' ship Revenge is anchored at the far end… and I, as you know, am Roberts.

Buttercup: How is that possible… since he's been marauding twenty years… and you only left me five years ago?

Westley: I myself am often surprised at life's little quirks. What I told you before about saying please was true. It intrigued Roberts… as did my description of your beauty.

[POP! Westley casually picks up Buttercup and gets them out of the way as the next flame spurt bursts from the ground.]

Westley: Finally, Roberts decided something. He said, "All right, Westley, I've never had a valet. You can try it for tonight. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." Three years he said that. "Good night, Westley, good work. Sleep well. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." It was a fine time for me. I was learning to fence, fight, anything anyone would teach me. And Roberts and I eventually became friends… and then it happened.

Buttercup: What? Go on.

Westley: Roberts had grown so rich, he wanted to retire… so he took me to his cabin and told me his secret. "I am not the Dread Pirate Roberts," he said. "My name is Ryan. I inherited the ship from the previous Roberts… just as you will inherit it from me. The man I inherited it from wasn't the real Roberts, either. His name was Cummerbund. The real Roberts has been retired fifteen years... and living like a king." Thank you. Then he explained the name was the important thing… for inspiring the necessary fear. You see, no one would surrender to the Dread Pirate Westley. So we sailed ashore, took on an entirely new crew. And he stayed aboard for a while as first mate… all the time calling me Roberts. Once the crew believed, he left the ship… and I have been Roberts ever since. Except, now that we're together… I shall retire and hand the name over to someone else. Is everything clear to you?

[Before Buttercup can respond, she's swallowed whole by a pit of snow-colored sand. Westley, thinking quickly, grabs a vine, cuts it off from the ground while leaving its other end attached to a nearby tree, and dives in after her. In the meantime, a Rodent of Unusual Size walks up to the pit and sniffs around briefly before leaving. As it departs, Buttercup and Westley, looking like their lungs are about to explode, emerge from the pit caked in the stuff. As Westley is cleaning her face of the stuff, he notices the Rodent of Unusual Size staring at them, waiting for the right moment to strike. As he continues to wipe the sand off of her...]

Buttercup: We'll never succeed. We may as well die here.

Westley: No, we have already succeeded.

[Glancing back at the Rodent of Unusual Size, he notices another specimen right next to it. Quietly and slowly, so as to not invite the beasts to jump them, he picks her up and walks away.]

Westley: I mean, what are the three terrors of the Fire Swamp? One, the flame spurt. No problem. There's a popping sound preceding each. We can avoid that. Two, the lightning sand. But you were clever enough to discover what that looks like… so in the future, we can avoid that, too.

Buttercup: Westley, what about the R.O.U.S.s?

Westley: Rodents of Unusual Size? I don't think they exist.

[Suddenly, one of the Rodents jumps Westley and sinks its teeth into his arms. He cries out in pain. He punches it off of him and tries to reach for his sword when the Rodent pins him again. After a struggle, he gets the Rodent off him again. When it makes a beeline for Buttercup, Westley gives up trying to go at it with his sword and yanks it away from her. Buttercup clubs the Rodent just before it pulls her down by the hem of her dress. Westley pulls it away, and it bites him again. Hearing a popping sound, Westley takes advantage of it and rolls the Rodent right onto the ensuing flame spurt. As the Rodent catches fire, it finally lets go of him, and he proceeds to stab the Rodent until it's dead. After watching its burning body for a moment, he and a relieved Buttercup then emerge from the Fire Swamp.]

Buttercup: We did it.

Westley: Now, was that so terrible?

[The two prepare to kiss when suddenly, Prince Humperdinck and his men arrive.]

Humperdinck: Surrender!

Westley: You mean you wish to surrender to me? Very well. I accept.

Humperdinck: I give you full marks for bravery. Don't make yourself a fool.

Westley: Ah, but how will you capture us? We know the secrets of the Fire Swamp. We can live there quite happily for some time, so whenever you feel like dying, feel free to visit.

[Buttercup sees some men aiming crossbows at Westley.]

Humperdinck: I tell you once again, surrender!

Westley: It will not happen.

Humperdinck: (gets out his sword) For the last time, surrender!

Westley: Death first!

Buttercup: Will you promise not to hurt him?!

Humperdinck: What was that?

Westley: What was that?

Buttercup: If we surrender and I return with you, will you promise not to hurt this man?

Humperdinck: May I live a thousand years and never hunt again.

Buttercup: He is a sailor on the pirate ship Revenge. Promise to return him to his ship.

Humperdinck: I swear it will be done. (to Rugen) Once we're out of sight, take him back to Florin and throw him in the Pit of Despair.

Rugen: I swear it will be done.

Buttercup: I thought you were dead once, and it almost destroyed me. I could not bear it if you died again, not when I could save you.

[Humperdinck picks up Buttercup and rides off with her.]

Rugen: Come, sir. We must get you to your ship.

Westley: We are men of action. Lies do not become us.

Rugen: Well spoken, sir. What is it?

Westley: You have six fingers on your right hand. Someone was looking for you.

[Rugen knocks Westley out.]

Westley: Where am I?

The Albino: The Pit of Despair. Don't even think... (clears his throat and reveals his creepy-sounding raspy voice is not his natural voice) Don't even think about trying to escape. The chains are far too thick. And don't dream of being rescued, either. The only way in is secret. Only the prince, the count, and I… know how to get in and out.

Westley: Then I'm here till I die?

The Albino: Till they kill you, yeah.

Westley: Then why bother curing me?

The Albino: The prince and count insist on everyone being healthy… before they're broken.

Westley: So it's to be torture. I can cope with torture. You don't believe me?

The Albino: You survived the Fire Swamp. You must be very brave… but nobody withstands the Machine.

[Back at the castle, Humperdinck is concerned about Buttercup's mental state.]

Humperdinck: She's been like that ever since the Fire Swamp. It's my father's failing health that's upsetting her.

Rugen: Of course.

[As a matter of fact, she's in the middle of a terrible nightmare.]

Grandfather: "The king died that very night, and before the following dawn Buttercup and Humperdinck were married. And at noon, she met her subjects again... this time, as their queen."

Humperdinck: My father's final words were...

Grandson: Hold it! Hold it, Grandpa. You read that wrong. She doesn't marry Humperdinck. She marries Westley. I'm just sure of it. After all that Westley did for her… if she didn't marry him, it wouldn't be fair.

Grandfather: Who says life is fair? Where is that written? Life isn't always fair.

Grandson: I'm telling you, you're messing up the story! Now, get it right!

Grandfather: Do you want me to go on with this?

Grandson: Yes.

Grandfather: All right, then, no more interruptions. "At noon, she met her subjects again... this time, as their queen."

Humperdinck: My father's final words were: "Love her as I loved her, and there will be joy." I present to you your queen! Queen Buttercup!

Ancient Booer: Boo! Boo!

Buttercup: Why do you do this?

Ancient Booer: You had love in your hands, and you gave it up!

Buttercup: They would have killed Westley if I hadn't done it.

Ancient Booer: Your true love lives, and you marry another! True love saved her in the Fire Swamp, and she treated it like garbage! And that's what she is: the Queen of Refuse! So bow down to her if you want! Bow to her! Bow to the Queen of Slime! The Queen of Filth! The Queen of Putrescence! Boo! Boo! Rubbish! Filth! Slime! Muck! Boo! Boo! Boo!

[Buttercup suddenly awakens in her bed, still not yet married to Humperdinck.]

Grandfather: It was ten days till the wedding. The king still lived. But Buttercup's nightmares were growing steadily worse.

Grandson: See? Didn't I say she'd never marry that rotten Humperdinck?

Grandfather: Yes, you're very smart. Shut up.

[Rattled by her latest nightmare, Buttercup approaches Humperdinck to confide to him what's really gotten her so upset as of late. Humperdinck shows her into his chamber.]

Buttercup: It comes to this. I love Westley. I always have. I know now I always will. If you tell me I must marry you in ten days, please believe I will be dead by morning.

Humperdinck: I could never cause you grief. Consider our wedding off. You returned this… Westley to his ship?

Rugen: Yes.

Humperdinck: Then we will simply alert him. Beloved, are you certain he still wants you? After all, it was you who did the leaving in the Fire Swamp. Not to mention that pirates are not known as men of their words.

Buttercup: My Westley will always come for me.

Humperdinck: I suggest a deal. You write four copies of a letter. I'll send my four fastest ships, one in each direction. The Dread Pirate Roberts is always close to Florin this time of year. We'll run up the white flag and deliver your message. If Westley wants you, bless you both. If not, please consider me as an alternative to suicide. Are we agreed?

Rugen: Your princess is really quite a winning creature. A trifle simple, perhaps, but her appeal is undeniable.

Humperdinck: I know. The people are quite taken with her. It's odd, but when I hired Vizzini to have her murdered on our engagement day, I thought that was clever. But it's going to be so much more moving when I strangle her on our wedding night. Once Guilder is blamed, the nation will be truly outraged. They'll demand we go to war.

Rugen: Now, where is that secret knot? It's impossible to find. Are you coming down into the pit? Westley's got his strength back. I'm starting him on the Machine tonight.

Humperdinck: Tyrone, you know how much I love watching you work, but I've got my country's 500th anniversary to plan, my wedding to arrange, my wife to murder, and Guilder to frame for it. I'm swamped.

Rugen: Get some rest. If you haven't got your health, you haven't got anything. Beautiful, isn't it? It took me half a lifetime to invent it. I'm sure you've discovered… my deep and abiding interest in pain. At present, I'm writing the definitive work… on the subject. So I want you to be totally honest with me… on how the Machine makes you feel. This being our first try, I'll use the lowest setting. As you know, the concept of the suction pump… is centuries old. Well, really, that's all this is. Except that, instead of sucking water... I'm sucking life. I've just sucked one year of your life away. I might one day go as high as five… but I really don't know what that would do to you… so let's just start with what we have. What did this do to you? Tell me. And remember, this is for posterity… so be honest. How do you feel? (Westley cries) Interesting.

Humperdinck: Yellin.

Yellin: Sire.

Humperdinck: As chief enforcer of all Florin, I trust you with this secret. Killers from Guilder are infiltrating the Thieves' Forest and plan to murder my bride on our wedding night.

Yellin: My spy network has heard no such news.

Buttercup: Any word from Westley?

Humperdinck: Too soon, my angel. Patience.

Buttercup: He will come for me.

Humperdinck: Of course. She will not be murdered. On the day of the wedding, I want the Thieves' Forest emptied and every inhabitant arrested.

Yellin: Many of the thieves will resist. My regular enforcers will be inadequate.

Humperdinck: Form a brute squad, then! I want the Thieves' Forest emptied before I wed.

Yellin: It won't be easy, sire.

Humperdinck: Try ruling the world sometime.

Grandfather: The day of the wedding arrived. The brute squad had their hands full, carrying out Humperdinck's orders.

Up! Up! Up!

Come on! Come on!

Yellin: Is everybody out?

Almost. There's a Spaniard giving us some trouble.

Yellin: Well, you give him some trouble. Move.

Inigo: I am waiting for you, Vizzini. You told me to go back to the beginning, so I have. This is where I am, and this is where I'll stay. I will not be moved.

Ho there!

Inigo: I do not budge. Keep your joder.

The prince gave orders.

Inigo: So did Vizzini. When a job went wrong, you went back to the beginning. This is where we got the job, so it's the beginning. And I am staying till Vizzini come.

You brute, come here!

Inigo: I am waiting for Vizzini.

Fezzik: You surely are a meanie. Hello.

Inigo: It's you.

Fezzik: True. You don't look so good. You don't smell so good, either.

Inigo: Perhaps not. I feel fine.

Grandfather: Fezzik and Inigo were reunited. As Fezzik nursed his inebriated friend back to health, he told Inigo of Vizzini's death and the existence of Count Rugen, the six-fingered man. Considering Inigo's lifelong search, he handled the news surprisingly well. Fezzik took great care in reviving Inigo.

Inigo: That's enough! Where is this Rugen now so I may kill him?

Fezzik: He's with the prince in the castle… but the castle gate is guarded by thirty men.

Inigo: How many could you handle?

Fezzik: I don't think more than ten.

Inigo: Leaving twenty for me. At my best, I could never defeat that many. I need Vizzini to plan. I have no gift for strategy.

Fezzik: But Vizzini is dead.

Inigo: No. Not Vizzini. I need the man in black.

Fezzik: What?

Inigo: He bested you with strength, your greatness. He bested me with steel. He must have out-thought Vizzini. A man who can do that can plan my castle onslaught any day. Let's go.

Fezzik: Where?

Inigo: Find the man in black, obviously.

Fezzik: But you don't know where he is.

Inigo: Don't bother me with trifles. After twenty years, at last… my father's soul will be at peace. There will be blood tonight!

Humperdinck: Rise and report.

Yellin: The Thieves' Forest is emptied. Thirty men guard the castle gate.

Humperdinck: Double it. My princess must be safe.

Yellin: The gate has but one key… and I carry that.

Humperdinck: My dulcet darling! Tonight, we marry. Tomorrow morning, your men will escort us to Florin Channel, where every ship in my armada waits to accompany us on our honeymoon.

Buttercup: Every ship but your four fastest, you mean. Every ship but the four you sent.

Humperdinck: Yes, of course. Naturally, not those four.

Yellin: Your Majesties.

Buttercup: You never sent the ships. Don't bother lying. It doesn't matter. Westley will come for me, anyway.

Humperdinck: You're a silly girl.

Buttercup: Yes, I am a silly girl for not having seen sooner that you were nothing but a coward with a heart full of fear.

Humperdinck: I would not say such things if I were you.

Buttercup: Why not? You can't hurt me. Westley and I are joined by the bonds of love… and you cannot track that… not with a thousand bloodhounds… and you cannot break it… not with a thousand swords. And when I say you are a coward… that is only because you are the slimiest weakling… ever to crawl the earth.

Humperdinck: I would not say such things if I were you!

[Humperdinck locks her in her chamber and storms out the castle and into the Pit of Despair as Rugen is meticulously preparing Westley's next session with the machine.]

Humperdinck: You truly love each other, and so you might have been truly happy. Not one couple in a century has that chance, no matter what the storybooks say. So I think no man in a century will suffer as greatly as you will.

[Humperdinck turns on the machine at full power.]

Rugen: NOT TO FIFTY!

[Westley screams as a shocked Rugen tries his best to calm down and study carefully the terrible thing that's transpiring. The scream is so loud, everyone within a large radius hears it, from the suddenly-distressed Albino to Buttercup to Yellin and the Brute Squad to the ordinary citizens of Florin all the way to Inigo and Fezzik.]

Inigo: Listen. Do you hear? That is the sound of ultimate suffering. My heart made that sound when Rugen slaughtered my father. The man in black makes it now.

Fezzik: The man in black?

Inigo: His true love is marrying another tonight. Who else has the cause for ultimate suffering? Excuse me. Pardon me, it's important. Fezzik, please.

Fezzik: Everybody, move!

Inigo: Thank you. Where is the man in black? You get there from this grove, yes? Fezzik, jog his memory.

[Fezzik bonks the Albino on the head and he falls unconscious.]

Fezzik: I'm sorry, Inigo. I didn't mean to jog him so hard.

Inigo: Father, I have failed you for twenty years. Now our misery can end. Somewhere… somewhere close by is a man who can help us. I cannot find him alone. I need you. I need you to guide my sword. Please. Guide my sword.

Fezzik: He's dead.

Inigo: It just is not fair.

Grandson: Grandpa, wait! Wait. What did Fezzik mean, "He's dead"? I mean, he didn't mean dead. Westley's only faking, right?

Grandfather: You want me to read this or not?

Grandson: Who gets Humperdinck?

Grandfather: I don't understand.

Grandson: Who kills Prince Humperdinck at the end? Somebody's got to do it. Is it Inigo? Who?

Grandfather: Nobody. Nobody kills him. He lives.

Grandson: You mean he wins? Jesus, Grandpa, what did you read me this thing for?

Grandfather: You've been very sick, and you're taking this story very seriously. I think we ought to stop now.

Grandson: No, I'm OK. I'm OK.

Grandfather: Sit down. I'm all right. All right, now, let's see, where were we? Oh, yes, in the Pit of Despair.

Inigo: We Montoyas have never taken defeat easily. Come along, Fezzik. Bring the body.

Fezzik: The body?

Inigo: Have you any money?

Fezzik: I have a little.

Inigo: I just hope it's enough to buy a miracle, that's all.

Miracle Max: Go away! What? What?

Inigo: Are you the Miracle Max… who worked for the king all those years?

Miracle Max: The king's stinking son fired me. And thank you for bringing up such a painful subject. While you're at it, why don't you give me a nice paper cut… and pour lemon juice on it? We're closed! Beat it, or I'll call the brute squad.

Fezzik: I'm on the brute squad.

Inigo: You are the brute squad.

Inigo: We need a miracle. It's very important.

Miracle Max: Look, I'm retired. And besides… why would you want someone the king's stinking son fired? I might kill whoever you wanted me to miracle.

Inigo: He's already dead.

Miracle Max: He is, huh? I'll take a look. Bring him in. I've seen worse.

Inigo: Sir? We're in a terrible rush.

Miracle Max: Don't rush me, sonny. You rush a miracle man, you get rotten miracles. You got money?

Inigo: Sixty-five.

Miracle Max: I never worked for so little… except once, and that was a very noble cause.

Inigo: This is noble, sir. His wife is crippled. His children are on the brink of starvation.

Miracle Max: Are you a rotten liar!

Inigo: I need him to help avenge my father… murdered these twenty years.

Miracle Max: Your first story was better. Where's that bellows? He probably owes you money, huh? Well, I'll ask him.

Inigo: He's dead. He can't talk.

Miracle Max: Look who knows so much, huh? It just so happens your friend is only mostly dead. There's a big difference between mostly dead and all dead. Please open his mouth. Now, mostly dead is slightly alive. Now, all dead… well, with all dead… there's usually only one thing that you can do.

Inigo: What's that?

Miracle Max: Go through his clothes and look for loose change. Hey! Hello in there! Hey! What's so important? What you got here that's worth living for?

Westley: Tr-u-u-ue lo-o-o-ove.

Inigo: True love. You heard him? You could not ask for a more noble cause than that.

Miracle Max: Hey, sonny… true love is the greatest thing in the world… except for a nice M.L.T… mutton, lettuce, and tomato sandwich… when the mutton is nice and lean and the tomato is ripe. They're so perky. I love that. But that's not what he said. He distinctly said, "To bl-a-a-ave." And as we all know, to blave means to bluff, huh? So you were probably playing cards, and he cheated...

Valerie: Liar! Liar! Liar!

Miracle Max: Get back, witch!

Valerie: I'm not a witch! I'm your wife! But after what you just said… I'm not even sure I want to be that anymore!

Miracle Max: You never had it so good.

Valerie: He said true love, Max.

Miracle Max: Don't say another word, Valerie!

Valerie: He's afraid. Ever since Prince Humperdinck fired him... his confidence is shattered.

Miracle Max: Why'd you say that name? You promised me that you would never say that name!

Valerie: What? Humperdinck?

Miracle Max: I'm not listening!

Valerie: A life expiring… and you don't have the decency to say why you won't help!

Miracle Max: Nobody's hearing nothing!

Valerie: Humperdinck!

Inigo: This is Buttercup's true love. If you heal him, he will stop Humperdinck's wedding.

Miracle Max: Shut up! Wait a minute. I make him better, Humperdinck suffers?

Inigo: Humiliations galore!

Miracle Max: (scats) That is a noble cause. Give me the sixty-five. I'm on the job.

Inigo: That's a miracle pill?

Valerie: The chocolate coating makes it go down easier… but you have to wait 15 minutes for full potency… and you shouldn't go swimming for at least, what?

Miracle Max: An hour. A good hour.

Valerie: Yeah, an hour.

Inigo: Thank you for everything.

Valerie: Bye-bye, boys.

Miracle Max: Have fun storming the castle.

Valerie: Think it'll work?

Miracle Max: It would take a miracle.

Max and Valerie: Bye!

Inigo: Anything?

Fezzik: Inigo, there's more than thirty.

Inigo: What's the difference? We've got him. Help me here. We'll have to force-feed him.

Fezzik: Has it been fifteen minutes?

Inigo: We can't wait. The wedding's in half an hour. We must strike in the hustle and bustle beforehand. Tilt his head back. Open his mouth.

Fezzik: How long do we have to wait… before if we know the miracle works?

Inigo: Your guess is as good as mine.

Westley: I'll beat you apart! I'll take you both together!

Fezzik: I guess not very long.

Westley: Why won't my arms move?

Fezzik: You've been mostly dead all day.

Inigo: We had Miracle Max make a pill to bring you back.

Westley: Who are you? Are we enemies? Why am I on this wall? Where's Buttercup?

Inigo: Let me explain. No, there is too much. Let me sum up. Buttercup's marrying Humperdinck in less than half an hour… so all we have to do is get in, break up the wedding… steal the princess, make our escape… after I kill Count Rugen.

Westley: That doesn't leave much time for dilly-dallying.

Fezzik: You just wiggled your finger! That's wonderful!

Westley: I've always been a quick healer. What are our liabilities?

Inigo: There is but one working castle gate. Come on. And it is guarded by sixty men.

Westley: And our assets?

Inigo: Your brains, Fezzik's strength, my steel.

Westley: That's it? Impossible. If I had a month to plan… maybe I could come up with something, but this...

Fezzik: You just shook your head! That doesn't make you happy?

Westley: My brains, his steel… and your strength against sixty men… and a little head jiggle is supposed to make me happy? If we only had a wheelbarrow, that would be something.

Inigo: Where did we put the wheelbarrow the albino had?

Fezzik: Over the albino, I think.

Westley: Why didn't you list that among our assets in the first place? What I wouldn't give for a holocaust cloak.

Inigo: There we cannot help you.

Fezzik: Will this do?

Inigo: Where did you get that?

Fezzik: At Miracle Max's. It fit so nice, he said I could keep it.

Westley: All right. Come on, help me up. I'll need a sword eventually.

Inigo: Why? You can't even lift one.

Westley: True, but that's hardly common knowledge, is it? Thank you. There may be problems once we're inside.

Inigo: I'll say. How do I find the count? Once I do, how do I find you again? Once I find you again, how do we escape?

Fezzik: Don't pester him. He's had a hard day.

Inigo: Right, right. Sorry.

Fezzik: Inigo.

Inigo: What?

Fezzik: I hope we win.

Humperdinck: You don't seem excited, my little muffin.

Buttercup: Should I be?

Humperdinck: Brides often are, I'm told.

Buttercup: I do not marry tonight. My Westley will save me.

Clergyman: Marriage… Marriage is what brings us together... today. Marriage… that blessed arrangement… that dream within a dream...

Stand your ground, men!

Fezzik: I am the Dread Pirate Roberts. There will be no survivor!

Inigo: Now?

Westley: Not yet.

Fezzik: My men are here. I am here... but soon you will not be here.

Inigo: Now?

Westley: Light him.

Fezzik: The Dread Pirate Roberts… takes no survivors. All your worst nightmares… are about to come true.

Clergyman: Then love… true love… will follow you… forever.

Fezzik: The Dread Pirate Roberts… is here for your souls!

Stay where you are! Fight! Stay where you are!

Clergyman: So treasure your love.

Humperdinck: Skip to the end.

Clergyman: Have you the ring?

Buttercup: Here comes my Westley now.

Westley: Fezzik, the portcullis!

Humperdinck: Your Westley is dead. I killed him myself.

Buttercup: Then why is there fear behind your eyes?

Westley: Give us the gate key.

Yellin: I have no gate key.

Inigo: Fezzik, tear his arms off.

Yellin: You mean this gate key?

Clergyman: ...and do you, Princess Buttercup...

Humperdinck: Man and wife! Say man and wife!

Clergyman: Man and wife.

Humperdinck: Escort the bride to the honeymoon suite. I'll be there shortly.

Buttercup: He didn't come.

Rugen: Kill the dark one and the giant… but leave the third for questioning.

Inigo: Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.

[Rugen unsheathes his sword, ready to take on Inigo... and then turns tail and runs.]

Inigo: I need you!

Fezzik: I can't leave him alone.

Inigo: He's getting away from me, Fezzik! Please!

Fezzik: I'll be right back.

Inigo: Thank you.

King: Strange wedding.

Queen: Yes... a very strange wedding. Come along.

King: What was that for?

Buttercup: Because you've always been so kind to me. And I won't be seeing you again… since I'm killing myself once we reach the honeymoon suite.

King: Won't that be nice? She kissed me!

[On the way down to the banquet hall, Rugen pulls a knife out of his boot. He then retreats inside to wait for Inigo. As Inigo approaches, he throws the knife, which hits Inigo straight through the heart. He collapses against a wall.]

Inigo: Sorry, Father. I tried. I tried...

Rugen: You must be that little Spanish brat... I taught a lesson to all those years ago. Simply incredible. Have you been chasing me your whole life… only to fail now? I think that's the worst thing I've ever heard. How marvelous.

[Inigo drops down, seemingly dead. Meanwhile, having returned to her chamber, Buttercup prepares to commit suicide by stabbing herself.]

Westley: There's a shortage of perfect breasts in this world. It would be a pity to damage yours.

Buttercup: Oh, Westley, darling! Westley, why won't you hold me?

Westley: Gently.

Buttercup: At a time like this… that's all you can think to say, gently?

Westley: Gently!

[As it turns out, Inigo was only mostly dead. He pulls the knife out of himself and starts to get back up, visibly struggling as he does so.]

Rugen: Good heavens, are you still trying to win? You've got an overdeveloped sense of vengeance. It's going to get you into trouble someday.

[Rugen tries a more direct thrust at Inigo, since the latter is clearly insisting on a fair finish. Without much effort, Inigo blocks both that thrust and another, gradually recovering his strength through sheer willpower.]

Inigo: Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.

[Inigo collapes forward against one of the tables and blocks Rugen's subsequent attacks. He slowly starts to approach him.]

Inigo: Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.

[Inigo suddenly starts to get more aggressive with Rugen.]

Inigo: HELLO! My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.

Rugen: (visibly and simultaneously annoyed and unnerved) Stop saying that!

[Inigo stabs Rugen twice, first on the left shoulder, then on the right.]

Inigo: HELLO! MY NAME IS INIGO MONTOYA! YOU KILLED MY FATHER! PREPARE TO DIE!

Rugen: NO!

[Inigo slashes Rugen's left cheek.]

Inigo: Offer me money.

Rugen: Yes!

Inigo: Power, too, promise me that.

[Inigo slashes Rugen's right cheek.]

Rugen: All that I have and more, please.

Inigo: Offer me everything I ask for.

Rugen: Anything you want.

[Inigo blocks Rugen's final attack and runs him through, pure cold hate in his eyes.]

Inigo: I want my father back, you son of a bitch.

[Inigo slashes a wide opening in Rugen's chest and pushes him back onto the table against the wall. Rugen dies of fright before Inigo can yank his heart out. Satisfied yet simultaneouly exhausted and not sure where he's going to go from there, Inigo leaves the banquet hall.]

Buttercup: Westley, will you ever forgive me?

Westley: What hideous sin have you committed lately?

Buttercup: I got married. I didn't want to. It all happened so fast.

Westley: It never happened.

Buttercup: What?

Westley: It never happened.

Buttercup: But it did. I was there. This old man said man and wife.

Westley: Did you say I do?

Buttercup: We sort of skipped that part.

Westley: Then you're not married. If you didn't say it, you didn't do it. (to Humperdinck) Wouldn't you agree, Your Highness?

[They turn around to see Humperdinck in the room.]

Humperdinck: A technicality that will shortly be remedied. But first things first. (gets out his sword) To the death.

Westley: No! To the pain.

Humperdinck: I don't think I'm quite familiar with that phrase.

Westley: I'll explain, and I'll use small words so that you'll be sure to understand, you warthog-faced buffoon.

Humperdinck: That may be the first time in my life a man has dared insult me.

Westley: It won't be the last. To the pain means the first thing you lose will be your feet below the ankles. Then your hands at the wrists. Next your nose.

Humperdinck: And then my tongue, I suppose. I killed you too quickly the last time, a mistake I don't mean to duplicate tonight.

Westley: I wasn't finished. The next thing you lose will be your left eye, then your right.

Humperdinck: And then my ears. I understand! Let's get on with it!

Westley: Wrong! Your ears you keep, and I'll tell you why. So that every shriek of every child at seeing your hideousness will be yours to cherish. Every babe that weeps at your approach, every woman who cries out, "Dear God, what is that thing?" will echo in your perfect ears. That is what "to the pain" means. It means I leave you in anguish, wallowing in freakish misery forever.

Humperdinck: I think you're bluffing.

Westley: It's possible, pig, I might be bluffing. It's conceivable, you miserable vomitous mass, I'm only lying here because I lack the strength to stand. Then again… perhaps I have the strength after all.

[Drawing on what strength he's thus far recovered, Westley gets up and points his sword at Humperdinck.]

Westley: DROP. YOUR. SWORD.

[Realizing that Westley might have the strength to carry out his threat after all, Humperdinck drops his sword.]

Westley: Have a seat. (to Buttercup, as Humperdinck takes a seat on the most royal-looking chair in the room) Tie him up. Make it as tight as you like.

[Inigo enters looking for Fezzik.]

Inigo: Where's Fezzik?

Westley: I thought he was with you?

Inigo: No.

Westley: In that case...

[Westley collapses, no longer needing to draw on his still-low stamina any further at this point.]

Inigo: Help him.

Buttercup: Why does Westley need helping?

Inigo: Because he has no strength.

Humperdinck: I knew it! I knew you were bluffing! I knew he was...

[Inigo points his sword at Humperdinck to remind him that Westley's got him dead to rights regardless.]

Humperdinck: ...bluffing.

Inigo: Shall I dispatch him for you?

Westley: Thank you, but no. Whatever happens to us, I want him to live a long life, alone with his cowardice.

Fezzik: (offscreen) Inigo, where are you?

[The three head to the window and open it to see Fezzik with four white horses down below.]

Fezzik: Ah, there you are. Inigo, I saw the prince's stables, and there they were, four white horses. And I thought, there are four of us… if we ever find the lady. (waves to Buttercup) Hello, lady. So I took them with me in case we ever bumped into each other. I guess we just did.

Inigo: Fezzik, you did something right.

Fezzik: Don't worry. I won't let it go to my head.

[Buttercup jumps down and lands safely in Fezzik's arms. Then, Westley gestures to Inigo to go next.]

Inigo: You know, it's very strange. I have been in the revenge business so long… now that it's over... I don't know what to do with the rest of my life.

Westley: Have you ever considered piracy? You'd make a wonderful Dread Pirate Roberts.

[Inigo shrugs in consideration. Then, we see the four ride off on the white horses.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "They rode to freedom. And as dawn arose, Westley and Buttercup knew they were safe."

[Fade to see Westley and Buttercup.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "A wave of love swept over them. And as they reached for each other..."

[As they prepare to kiss, we cut to reality.]

Grandson: What? What?

Grandfather: No, it's kissing again. You don't want to hear that.

Grandson: I don't mind so much.

Grandfather: (shrugs) Okay.

[We cut back to the story. Westley and Buttercup passionately kiss.]

Grandfather: (voiceover) "Since the invention of the kiss… there have been five kisses… that were rated the most passionate… the most pure. This one left them all behind."

[Cut to reality.]

Grandfather: "The end." (closes the book) Now, I think you ought to go to sleep.

Grandson: Okay.

[The Grandfather sets the book on the shelf.]

Grandfather: Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. So long.

Grandson: Grandpa? Maybe you could come over and read it again to me tomorrow.

Grandfather: As you wish.

[He gets up to grab his coat, turn off the lights, and leave the room. Fade to black. Roll credits.]
